# Table of contents

<!-- toc -->
- [Include files](#include-files)
- [webapp parameters](#webapp-parameters)
  * [Changing webapp parameters](#changing-webapp-params)
  * [Changing webapp name](#changing-webapp-name)
- [Default projects](#default-projects)
- [Path Descriptions](#path-descriptions)
- [Configuration tunables](#configuration-tunables)
- [Optional setup of security manager for Tomcat](#Optional-setup-of-security-manager-for-Tomcat)
<!-- tocstop -->

# Include files

There are various files that can be placed under data root directory (e.g. `/var/opengrok/data` on Unix systems) that affect how the web pages generated by the webapp will look like:

  * `header_include` -
    The contents of this file will be appended to the header of each
    web page after the OpenGrok logo element.
  * `footer_include` -
    The contents of this file will be appended to the footer of each
    web page after the information about last index update.
  * `body_include` -
    The contents of this file will be inserted above the footer of the web
    application's "Home" page.
  * `error_forbidden_include` -
    The contents of this file will be displayed as the error page when
    the user is forbidden to see a particular project with `HTTP 403` code.

The directory where to find include files can be configured in the read-only configuration with the `includeRoot` property.

# webapp parameters

You might need to modify the web application if you don't store the
configuration file in the default location
(`/var/opengrok/etc/configuration.xml`).

To configure the webapp `source.war`, look into the parameters defined in
`WEB-INF/web.xml` of `source.war` (use jar or zip/unzip or your preferred zip
tool to get into it - e.g. extract the `web.xml` file from `source.war` (`unzip
source.war WEB-INF/web.xml`) file, edit `web.xml` and re-package the jar file
(`zip -u source.war WEB-INF/web.xml`) file and change those `web.xml`
parameters appropriately. These sample parameters need modifying (there are
more options, refer to manual or read param comments).

To configure the webapp `source.war`, look into the parameters defined in
`web.xml` of `source.war` file and change them (see note1) appropriately.

* **CONFIGURATION** – the absolute path to XML file containing project configuration
  (e.g. `/var/opengrok/etc/configuration.xml`)
* **ConfigAddress** – port for remote updates to configuration, optional, but advised(since there is no authentication)
  to be set to `localhost:<some_port>` (e.g. `localhost:2424`), if you choose `some_port` below 1024 usually you have to make sure the server is running with elevated privileges.

## Changing webapp parameters

`web.xml` is the deployment descriptor for the web application. It is in a Jar
file named `source.war`, you can change it as follows:

* **Option 1**:
  Unzip the file to `TOMCAT/webapps/source/` directory and
     change the `source/WEB-INF/web.xml` and other static html files like
     `index.html` to customize to your project.

* **Option 2**:
  Extract the `web.xml` file from `source.war` file

  ```bash
  unzip source.war WEB-INF/web.xml
  ```

  edit `web.xml` and re-package the jar file.

  ```bash
  zip -u source.war WEB-INF/web.xml
  ```

  Then copy the war files to `TOMCAT/webapps` directory.

* **Option 3**:
  Edit the Context container element for the webapp

  Copy `source.war` to `TOMCAT/webapps`

  When invoking OpenGrok to build the index, use `-w <webapp>` to set the
     context. If you change this(or set using `OPENGROK_WEBAPP_CONTEXT`) later,
     FULL clean reindex is needed.

  After the index is built, there's a couple different ways to set the
  Context for the servlet container:

  * Add the Context inside a Host element in `TOMCAT/conf/server.xml`

      ```xml
      <Context path="/<webapp>" docBase="source.war">
          <Parameter name="DATA_ROOT" value="/path/to/data/root" override="false" />
          <Parameter name="SRC_ROOT" value="/path/to/src/root" override="false" />
          <Parameter name="HEADER" value='...' override="false" />
      </Context>
      ```
   * Create a Context file for the webapp

     This file will be named `<webapp>.xml`.

     For Tomcat, the file will be located at:
     `TOMCAT/conf/<engine_name>/<hostname>`, where `<engine_name>`
     is the Engine that is processing requests and `<hostname>` is a Host
     associated with that Engine.  By default, this path is
     `TOMCAT/conf/Catalina/localhost` or `TOMCAT/conf/Standalone/localhost`.

     This file will contain something like the Context described above.

## Changing webapp name

You might need to modify the web application if you don't store the configuration file in the default location (<code>/var/opengrok/etc/configuration.xml</code>). This can be conveniently done using the `opengrok-deploy` script by supplying the path to the configuration.

If you need to change name of the web application from `source` to something else, just deploy `source.war` as `new_name.war`.

Deploy the modified `.war` file in glassfish/Sun Java App Server:

* **Option 1**:
  Use browser and log into glassfish web administration interface: Common Tasks / Applications / Web Applications
  , button Deploy and point it to your `source.war` webarchive

* **Option 2**:
  Copy the `source.war` file to
    `GLASSFISH/domains/YOURDOMAIN/autodeploy` directory, glassfish will try
    to deploy it "auto magically".

* **Option 3**:
  Use cli from GLASSFISH directory:

  ```bash
  ./bin/asadmin deploy /path/to/source.war
  ```
  Deploy the modified `.war` file in tomcat:
    just copy the `source.war` file to `TOMCAT_INSTALL/webapps` directory.

### Deploy the modified .war file in glassfish/Sun Java App Server

* '''Option 1:''' Use browser and log into <code>glassfish web administration interface</code>

: Common Tasks / Applications / Web Applications , button '''Deploy''' and point it to your source.war webarchive

* '''Option 2:''' Copy the source.war file to `//GLASSFISH///domains///YOURDOMAIN///autodeploy` directory, glassfish will try to deploy it "automagically".
* '''Option 3:''' Use CLI from `//GLASSFISH//` directory:

 `./bin/asadmin deploy /path/to/source.war`

### Deploy the modified .war file in tomcat:

* just copy the source.war file to `//TOMCAT_INSTALL///webapps` directory.

# Default projects

It is possible to set a list of projects that will be selected by default in the UI if the user did not previously select any. Once the user selects a project, this setting will be stored in a cookie and will override the set of default projects.

To specify default projects, either use:
  - the `-p` option when running the indexer directly from `opengrok.jar` file. Can be specified multiple times.

# Path Descriptions

OpenGrok can use path descriptions in various places (e.g. while showing
directory listings or search results).

The descriptions are contained in plain text file normally called `paths.tsv`.

The file contains descriptions for directories - one per line. Path to the
directory and its description are separated by tab. The path to the directory
is absolute path under the source root directory.

For example, if the source root directory contains the following directories:

* foo
* bar
* bar/blah
* random
* random/code

then the `paths.tsv` file contents can look like this:

```
/foo  source code for foo
/bar  source code for bar
/bar/blah source code for blah
```

Note that just some paths can have a description.

For the path descriptions to be put into effect use [RESTful API](/OpenGrok/OpenGrok/wiki/Web-services) call like so:

```shell
curl -i -X POST -H "Content-Type: text/plain" \
    --data-binary "@/opengrok/etc/paths.tsv" \
    http://localhost:8080/source/api/v1/system/pathdesc
```

where `/opengrok/etc/paths.tsv` is path to the plain text file with path descriptions.

# Configuration tunables

These can be set in https://github.com/OpenGrok/OpenGrok/wiki/Read-only-configuration

Tunable | Type | Since version | Meaning
--------|------|---------------|--------
`navigateWindowEnabled` | boolean | 1.1 | display navigate window automatically when browsing xrefs, can be overridden on project level (see https://github.com/oracle/opengrok/wiki/Per-project-configuration)

# Optional setup of security manager for Tomcat

On some Linux distributions you need to setup permissions for source root and data root. Please check your Tomcat documentation on this, or simply disable (your risk!) <u>security manager</u> for Tomcat (e.g. in debian/ubuntu : in file <code>/etc/default/tomcat5.5</code> set <code>TOMCAT5_SECURITY=no</code>).
A sample approach is to <u>edit</u> <code>/etc/tomcat5.5/04webapps.policy</code> (or <code>/var/apache/tomcat/conf/catalina.policy</code>) and set this (it will give OpenGrok all permissions) for your OpenGrok webapp instance:

```
grant codeBase "file:${catalina.home}/webapps/source/-" {     
permission java.security.AllPermission;};
grant codeBase "file:${catalina.home}/webapps/source/WEB-INF/lib/-" {     
permission java.security.AllPermission;};
```

Alternatively you can be more restrictive (haven't tested below with a complex setup (e.g. some versioning system which needs local access as CVS), if it will not work, please report through [[Discussions]].

```
grant codeBase "file:${catalina.home}/webapps/source/-" {  
permission java.util.PropertyPermission "subversion.native.library", "read";  
permission java.lang.RuntimePermission "loadLibrary.svnjavahl-1?;  
permission java.lang.RuntimePermission "loadLibrary.libsvnjavahl-1?;  
permission java.lang.RuntimePermission "loadLibrary.svnjavahl";  
permission java.util.PropertyPermission "disableLuceneLocks", "read";  
permission java.util.PropertyPermission "catalina.home", "read";  
permission java.util.PropertyPermission "java.io.tmpdir", "read";  
permission java.util.PropertyPermission "org.apache.lucene.lockdir", "read";  
permission java.util.PropertyPermission "org.apache.lucene.writeLockTimeout", "read";  
permission java.util.PropertyPermission "org.apache.lucene.commitLockTimeout", "read";  
permission java.util.PropertyPermission "org.apache.lucene.mergeFactor", "read";  
permission java.util.PropertyPermission "org.apache.lucene.minMergeDocs", "read";  
permission java.util.PropertyPermission "org.apache.lucene.*", "read";  
permission java.io.FilePermission "/var/lib/tomcat5/temp", "read";  
permission java.io.FilePermission "/var/lib/tomcat5/temp/*", "write";  
permission java.io.FilePermission "/var/lib/tomcat5/temp/*", "delete";};
grant codeBase "file:${catalina.home}/webapps/source/WEB-INF/lib/-" {  
permission java.util.PropertyPermission "subversion.native.library", "read";  
permission java.lang.RuntimePermission "loadLibrary.svnjavahl-1?;  
permission java.util.PropertyPermission "disableLuceneLocks", "read";  
permission java.util.PropertyPermission "catalina.home", "read";  
permission java.util.PropertyPermission "java.io.tmpdir", "read";};
grant codeBase "file:${catalina.home}/webapps/source/WEB-INF/classes/-" {  
permission java.util.PropertyPermission "subversion.native.library", "read";  
permission java.lang.RuntimePermission "loadLibrary.svnjavahl-1?;  
permission java.util.PropertyPermission "disableLuceneLocks", "read";  
permission java.util.PropertyPermission "catalina.home", "read";  
permission java.util.PropertyPermission "java.io.tmpdir", "read";};
```